CASE STUDY: ( Decission Trees)

Problem : we are interested in automating the process of figuring out the cuisine of a given dish or recipe. Let's apply the business understanding stage to this problem.

Questions to be asked :

Q. Can we predict the cuisine of a given dish using the name of the dish only?
A : NO

Q : Q. For example, the following dish names were taken from the menu of a local restaurant in Toronto, Ontario in Canada.
1. Beast
2. 2 PM
3. 4 Minute
Are you able to tell the cuisine of these dishes?
A : The cuisine is Japanese. 

Q. What about by appearance only? Yes or No
A: No, especially when it comes to countries in close geographical proximity such as Scandinavian countries, or Asian countries.

Q. What about determining the cuisine of a dish based on its ingredients?
A : Potentially yes, as there are specific ingredients unique to each cuisine.
As you guessed, yes determining the cuisine of a given dish based on its ingredients seems like a viable solution as some ingredients are unique to cuisines.

Q: Accordingly, can you determine the cuisine of the dish associated with the following list of ingredients?

 A: Japanese since the recipe is most likely that of a sushi roll.


Analytic Approach
Q : Why is the analytic approach stage important?¶
A : Because it helps identify what type of patterns will be needed to address the question most effectively.

Let's explore a machine learning algorithm, decision trees, and see if it is the right technique to automate the process
of identifying the cuisine of a given dish or recipe while simultaneously providing us with some insight on why a given recipe
is believed to belong to a certain type of cuisine.

This is a decision tree that a naive person might create manually. Starting at the top with all the recipes for all the 
cuisines in the world, if a recipe contains rice, then this decision tree would classify it as a Japanese cuisine.
Otherwise, it would be classified as not a Japanese cuisine.

 

Is this a good decision tree? Yes or No, and why?
A: No, because a plethora of dishes from other cuisines contain rice. Therefore, using rice as the ingredient 
in the Decision node to split on is not a good choice.

Decision Trees:

•	Decision trees are built using recursive partitioning to classify the data.
•	When partitioning the data, decision trees use the most predictive feature (ingredient in this case) to split the data.
•	Predictiveness is based on decrease in entropy - gain in information, or impurity.
Suppose that our data is comprised of green triangles and red circles.

The following decision tree would be considered the optimal model for classifying the 
data into a node for green triangles and a node for red circles.
 

Each of the classes in the leaf nodes are completely pure – that is, each leaf node only contains datapoints that belong to the same class.

On the other hand, the following decision tree is an example of the worst-case scenario that the model could output
 

Each leaf node contains datapoints belonging to the two classes resulting in many datapoints ultimately being misclassified.

A tree stops growing at a node when:
•	Pure or nearly pure.
•	No remaining variables on which to further subset the data.
•	The tree has grown to a preselected size limit.
Here are some characteristics of decision trees
 

Now let's put what we learned about decision trees to use. Let's try and build a much better version of the decision tree for our recipe problem.
 

I hope you agree that the above decision tree is a much better version than the previous one.
Although we are still using Rice as the ingredient in the first decision node, recipes get divided into Asian Food and Non-Asian Food. 
Asian Food is then further divided into Japanese and Not Japanese based on the Wasabi ingredient. 
This process of splitting leaf nodes continues until each leaf node is pure, i.e., containing recipes belonging to only one cuisine.

Accordingly, decision trees is a suitable technique or algorithm for our recipe case study.
